README.md, before:

# Desktop Configuration

Current distribution: **Fedora 27**

## Data to Back Up
* `~/.gnupg/`
* `~/.password-store/`
* `~/.gitconfig`

## Machine Setup
1. Initialize a thumb drive using the [Fedora Media Writer](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/How_to_create_and_use_Live_USB#Quickstart:_Using_Fedora_Media_Writer).
1. Boot to the USB drive.
1. Reclaim disk space. Disk encryption is good; I use [Opal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opal_Storage_Specification) from my ThinkPad BIOS setup, but you can use [LUKS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_Unified_Key_Setup). I prefer Opal because GNOME Software Center updates require two reboots, and Opal can persist across reboots. 
1. Set up a single admin user (no password set for `root`).
1. Reboot into the newly installed Fedora.
1. Update Fedora using the GNOME Software Center. (A direct `dnf upgrade` can, rarely, cause issues.)
1. Configure the GNOME desktop:

       gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface scaling-factor 1  # Disables HiDPI scaling.
       gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.input-sources xkb-options "['caps:ctrl_modifier']"  # Use Caps Lock as Ctrl
       gsettings set org.gnome.mutter dynamic-workspaces false  # Use static workspaces.
       gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.wm.preferences num-workspaces 1  # Disable all workspace functionality.
       gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface clock-show-seconds true
       gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface clock-show-date true
       gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.mouse natural-scroll true  # Use Apple-style natural scrolling.
       gsettings set org.gnome.shell enabled-extensions "[]"  # Disable the Fedora desktop logo.
       
       # Terminal:
       gsettings set "org.gnome.Terminal.Legacy.Keybindings:/org/gnome/terminal/legacy/keybindings/" reset-and-clear 'F12'  # Set F12 to Reset and Clear
       TPROFILE=$(gsettings get org.gnome.Terminal.ProfilesList default | tr --delete "'")
       gsettings set "org.gnome.Terminal.Legacy.Profile:/org/gnome/terminal/legacy/profiles:/:$TPROFILE/" scrollback-unlimited true  # Enable unlimited scrollback.

1. Install Google Chrome and authorize sandboxing:

       sudo dnf install https://dl.google.com/linux/direct/google-chrome-stable_current_x86_64.rpm
       # Still necessary? sudo setsebool -P unconfined_chrome_sandbox_transition 0

1. Add RPM Fusion repositories:

       sudo dnf install https://download1.rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/rpmfusion-free-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm https://download1.rpmfusion.org/nonfree/fedora/rpmfusion-nonfree-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm

1. Install other packages:

       sudo dnf install gimp htop inkscape iotop mariadb meld nano php-cli powertop quassel-client tor unbound wireshark-gnome transmission gnome-system-log fatsort nmap-frontend pass ghex composer gnome-builder u2f-hidraw-policy chromium libvirt-daemon-config-network chrome-gnome-shell

1. Add the [Caffeine GNOME Shell extension](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/517/caffeine/).

1. Configure git:

       git config --global user.name "David Strauss"
       git config --global user.email name@example.com

## Smart Cards

### Tested Hardware

* Reader and card: [YubiKey Neo](https://www.yubico.com/products/yubikey-hardware/yubikey-neo/) and Neo-N
* Reader and card: [YubiKey 4](https://www.yubico.com/products/yubikey-hardware/yubikey4/) and 4 Nano
* Card only: [Fidesmo Dual Interface](http://shop.fidesmo.com/product/fidesmo-card-dual-interface)
* Reader only: [JK-A0100 Series Smartcard Keyboard](http://cherryamericas.com/product/jk-a0100eu-smartcard-keyboard/): Use `enable-pinpad-varlen` in `.gnupg/gpg-agent.conf` for secure PIN entry. The specific tested model was JK-A0100EU-2.
* Reader only: Identiv SCM SPR 532: Should work with secure PIN entry out of the box
* Reader only: Lenovo ThinkPad T560 built-in: No secure PIN entry available
* [LWN Article: A comparison of cryptographic keycards](https://lwn.net/Articles/736231/)

### Machine Setup

1. Install packages:

        sudo dnf install ykpers pcsc-lite-ccid

1. Start and enable the smart card daemon:

        sudo systemctl enable --now pcscd

1. Enable GnuPG SSH agent support:

        echo "enable-ssh-support" >> .gnupg/gpg-agent.conf
        
1. Ensure the GnuPG Agent is available for SSH use whenever you start a Bash session:

       cat <<EOT >> ~/.bashrc
       GPG_TTY=$(tty); export GPG_TTY;
       if [ "${gnupg_SSH_AUTH_SOCK_by:-0}" -ne $$ ]; then
         export SSH_AUTH_SOCK="/run/user/$UID/gnupg/S.gpg-agent.ssh"
       fi
       gpg-connect-agent /bye
       EOT

### Using an Existing Smart Card

1. Complete the Machine Setup above.
1. Import any existing smart card keys (that were set up according to the directions below):

       gpg2 --card-edit
       > fetch
       > quit
       gpg2 --card-status

1. Import any other keys:

       gpg2 --keyserver keys.gnupg.net --recv-key $KEYID
       gpg2 --keyserver hkps.pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-key $KEYID  # Another database to try.
       gpg2 --keyserver pgp.mit.edu --recv-key $KEYID  # Another database to try.

1. Add trust to any necessary keys:

       gpg2 --edit-key $KEYID
       > trust

### Setting Up a New Smart Card

1. Complete the Machine Setup above.
1. If the smart card is a YubiKey Neo or YubiKey 4, set the card's mode:

        ykpersonalize -m86

1. Configure the card, generate a key pair, and upload the key:

       gpg2 --change-pin  # Change both the PIN (default is 123456)
                          # and the Admin PIN (default is 12345678).
                          # I use pwgen for the admin PIN.
       gpg2 --card-edit
       gpg/card> admin
       gpg/card> generate # No off-card key backup. 
                          # Use a key size of 3072 for everything on YubiKey 4. Default is fine for NEO.
                          # No expiration.
                          # Back up the .rev file.
       gpg/card> quit  # GPG will then print out data, including the key fingerprint
                       # as a long, alphanumeric string.
       gpg2 --keyserver hkps://keys.gnupg.net --send-keys $FINGERPRINT
       gpg2 --keyserver hkps://hkps.pool.sks-keyservers.net --send-keys $FINGERPRINT
       gpg2 --keyserver hkp://pgp.mit.edu --send-keys $FINGERPRINT

1. Display the public key in OpenSSH format:

       ssh-add -L

1. Optionally, export the "secret key," which will only be a stub (not the actual key, which is not obtainable):

       gpg2 --export-secret-key --armor $FINGERPRINT > $FINGERPRINT.asc  # Back this up, too.

1. After this is finished, the card should work. You should also have `$FINGERPRINT.asc` and `$FINGERPRINT.rev` backed up. Google Drive and Dropbox are fine for this backup; these files cannot be used to impersonate you.

### One-Time or Test Usage of the Agent

1. Open a terminal.
1. If you're restarted your computer since using the agent, start it:

       gpg-agent --daemon

1. In any shell where you want to use it, point OpenSSH to the GPG agent:

       export SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/run/user/$UID/gnupg/S.gpg-agent.ssh  # Or use the line shown in the output of starting the GPG agent

### Revoking a Key

1. If the key isn't imported locally, follow the "Using an Existing Smart Card" steps first (but skipping the "trust" step).
1. If you don't have the revocation certificate (`.rev`) backed up but have the private key:

       gpg2 --gen-revoke --output=$FINGERPRINT.rev $FINGERPRINT

1. Import the revocation:

       gpg2 --import $FINGERPRINT.rev  # May need to remove colon before the five dashes from file.
       
1. Publish the revocation:

       gpg2 --keyserver hkps://keys.gnupg.net --send-keys $FINGERPRINT
       gpg2 --keyserver hkps://hkps.pool.sks-keyservers.net --send-keys $FINGERPRINT
       gpg2 --keyserver hkp://pgp.mit.edu --send-keys $FINGERPRINT

## Go Development

1. Install packages:

       sudo dnf install golang

1. Add Go to the path:

       cat <<EOT >> ~/.bashrc
       export GOPATH=$HOME/go
       export PATH=$PATH:$GOROOT/bin:$GOPATH/bin
       EOT

## PHP Development

1. Install packages:

       sudo dnf install -y nginx mariadb mariadb-server php php-fpm php-mysqlnd php-dbg php-cli php-bcmath php-phpass php-mbstring php-opcache php-gd php-pecl-apcu php-pecl-xdebug

1. Install, start, and configure the database:

       sudo systemctl start mariadb
       mysql_secure_installation

1. Create a directory for web projects (and enable web server access to directories of that type):

       chmod 711 ~
       mkdir ~/public_html
       sudo setsebool -P httpd_enable_homedirs 1    # Enables use of ~/public_html by nginx and PHP-FPM.
       sudo setsebool -P httpd_execmem 1            # Enables PHP's regex compilation.
       sudo setsebool -P httpd_builtin_scripting 1  # Hope to fix: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1510717
       sudo setsebool -P httpd_unified 1            # Same here.
       sudo setsebool -P httpd_enable_cgi 1         # Same here.

1. Add support for "userdir" to nginx:

       cat <<EOT | sudo tee /etc/nginx/default.d/userdir.conf
       location @drupal {
           error_log /var/log/nginx/userdir.log notice;
           #rewrite_log on;
           rewrite ^/~([^/]+)/([^/]+)(.*)\?(.*)$ /~$1/$2/index.php?q=$3&$4;
           rewrite ^/~([^/]+)/([^/]+)(/.*?)$ /~$1/$2/index.php?q=$3;
       }
       
       location ^~ /~ {
           error_log /var/log/nginx/userdir.log notice;
       
           location ~ ^/~(?<username>[^/]+)(?<path>/.+\.php)$ {
               root /home/$username/public_html;
               try_files $path =404;
               fastcgi_index  index.php;
               include        fastcgi_params;
               fastcgi_param  SCRIPT_FILENAME  $document_root$path;
               fastcgi_param  SCRIPT_NAME      /~$username$path;
               fastcgi_pass   php-fpm;
           }
       
           location ~ ^/~(?<username>[^/]+)(?<path>/.+?)?$ {
               root /home/$username/public_html;
               try_files $path @drupal;
           }
       }
       EOT

1. Configure some PHP-related options:

       echo "apc.rfc1867=1" | sudo tee -a /etc/php.d/40-apcu.ini  # Upload progress tracking.
       
1. Start services for development (each time they're needed):

       sudo systemctl start mariadb php-fpm nginx

1. Use `~/public_html/$PROJECT/` as the web root, accessible via `http://localhost/~$USER/$PROJECT/`.

1. If new files with the wrong context get added, fix the selinux context:

       restorecon -R ~/public_html

## Dwarf Fortress
1. Download the latest archive.
1. Install necessary packages:

       sudo dnf install -y SDL.i686 SDL_image.i686 SDL_ttf.i686 mesa-libGLU.i686 gtk2.i686 zlib.i686 openal-soft.i686 xterm python qt qt-x11 bzip2 xorg-x11-fonts-Type1

1. Launch with `startlnp`
1. Use `xterm -e` as the custom terminal command configuration.

## OpenRA

1. Add OpenRA repository:

       sudo dnf config-manager --add-repo http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/games:/openra/Fedora_25/games:openra.repo

1. Install package:

       sudo dnf install -y openra

## BIOS Updates

1. Install the conversion utility:

       sudo dnf install geteltorito

1. Download the "bootable CD" ISO. For ThinkPads, use [Lenovo's support site](http://pcsupport.lenovo.com/us/en/).
1. Write it to a USB drive:

       geteltorito -o update.img downloaded.iso

1. Open the `update.img` in the Disks utility and restore it to the USB drive.
1. Boot from that drive.

## Other Resources

* [U2F Local Login](http://blog.liw.fi/posts/u2f-pam/)

Commit message:

Switch OpenRA to manual management

README.md, after:

# Desktop Configuration

Current distribution: **Fedora 27**

## Data to Back Up
* `~/.gnupg/`
* `~/.password-store/`
* `~/.gitconfig`

## Machine Setup
1. Initialize a thumb drive using the [Fedora Media Writer](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/How_to_create_and_use_Live_USB#Quickstart:_Using_Fedora_Media_Writer).
1. Boot to the USB drive.
1. Reclaim disk space. Disk encryption is good; I use [Opal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opal_Storage_Specification) from my ThinkPad BIOS setup, but you can use [LUKS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_Unified_Key_Setup). I prefer Opal because GNOME Software Center updates require two reboots, and Opal can persist across reboots. 
1. Set up a single admin user (no password set for `root`).
1. Reboot into the newly installed Fedora.
1. Update Fedora using the GNOME Software Center. (A direct `dnf upgrade` can, rarely, cause issues.)
1. Configure the GNOME desktop:

       gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface scaling-factor 1  # Disables HiDPI scaling.
       gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.input-sources xkb-options "['caps:ctrl_modifier']"  # Use Caps Lock as Ctrl
       gsettings set org.gnome.mutter dynamic-workspaces false  # Use static workspaces.
       gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.wm.preferences num-workspaces 1  # Disable all workspace functionality.
       gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface clock-show-seconds true
       gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface clock-show-date true
       gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.mouse natural-scroll true  # Use Apple-style natural scrolling.
       gsettings set org.gnome.shell enabled-extensions "[]"  # Disable the Fedora desktop logo.
       
       # Terminal:
       gsettings set "org.gnome.Terminal.Legacy.Keybindings:/org/gnome/terminal/legacy/keybindings/" reset-and-clear 'F12'  # Set F12 to Reset and Clear
       TPROFILE=$(gsettings get org.gnome.Terminal.ProfilesList default | tr --delete "'")
       gsettings set "org.gnome.Terminal.Legacy.Profile:/org/gnome/terminal/legacy/profiles:/:$TPROFILE/" scrollback-unlimited true  # Enable unlimited scrollback.

1. Install Google Chrome and authorize sandboxing:

       sudo dnf install https://dl.google.com/linux/direct/google-chrome-stable_current_x86_64.rpm
       # Still necessary? sudo setsebool -P unconfined_chrome_sandbox_transition 0

1. Add RPM Fusion repositories:

       sudo dnf install https://download1.rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/rpmfusion-free-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm https://download1.rpmfusion.org/nonfree/fedora/rpmfusion-nonfree-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm

1. Install other packages:

       sudo dnf install gimp htop inkscape iotop mariadb meld nano php-cli powertop quassel-client tor unbound wireshark-gnome transmission gnome-system-log fatsort nmap-frontend pass ghex composer gnome-builder u2f-hidraw-policy chromium libvirt-daemon-config-network chrome-gnome-shell

1. Add the [Caffeine GNOME Shell extension](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/517/caffeine/).

1. Configure git:

       git config --global user.name "David Strauss"
       git config --global user.email name@example.com

## Smart Cards

### Tested Hardware

* Reader and card: [YubiKey Neo](https://www.yubico.com/products/yubikey-hardware/yubikey-neo/) and Neo-N
* Reader and card: [YubiKey 4](https://www.yubico.com/products/yubikey-hardware/yubikey4/) and 4 Nano
* Card only: [Fidesmo Dual Interface](http://shop.fidesmo.com/product/fidesmo-card-dual-interface)
* Reader only: [JK-A0100 Series Smartcard Keyboard](http://cherryamericas.com/product/jk-a0100eu-smartcard-keyboard/): Use `enable-pinpad-varlen` in `.gnupg/gpg-agent.conf` for secure PIN entry. The specific tested model was JK-A0100EU-2.
* Reader only: Identiv SCM SPR 532: Should work with secure PIN entry out of the box
* Reader only: Lenovo ThinkPad T560 built-in: No secure PIN entry available
* [LWN Article: A comparison of cryptographic keycards](https://lwn.net/Articles/736231/)

### Machine Setup

1. Install packages:

        sudo dnf install ykpers pcsc-lite-ccid

1. Start and enable the smart card daemon:

        sudo systemctl enable --now pcscd

1. Enable GnuPG SSH agent support:

        echo "enable-ssh-support" >> .gnupg/gpg-agent.conf
        
1. Ensure the GnuPG Agent is available for SSH use whenever you start a Bash session:

       cat <<EOT >> ~/.bashrc
       GPG_TTY=$(tty); export GPG_TTY;
       if [ "${gnupg_SSH_AUTH_SOCK_by:-0}" -ne $$ ]; then
         export SSH_AUTH_SOCK="/run/user/$UID/gnupg/S.gpg-agent.ssh"
       fi
       gpg-connect-agent /bye
       EOT

### Using an Existing Smart Card

1. Complete the Machine Setup above.
1. Import any existing smart card keys (that were set up according to the directions below):

       gpg2 --card-edit
       > fetch
       > quit
       gpg2 --card-status

1. Import any other keys:

       gpg2 --keyserver keys.gnupg.net --recv-key $KEYID
       gpg2 --keyserver hkps.pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-key $KEYID  # Another database to try.
       gpg2 --keyserver pgp.mit.edu --recv-key $KEYID  # Another database to try.

1. Add trust to any necessary keys:

       gpg2 --edit-key $KEYID
       > trust

### Setting Up a New Smart Card

1. Complete the Machine Setup above.
1. If the smart card is a YubiKey Neo or YubiKey 4, set the card's mode:

        ykpersonalize -m86

1. Configure the card, generate a key pair, and upload the key:

       gpg2 --change-pin  # Change both the PIN (default is 123456)
                          # and the Admin PIN (default is 12345678).
                          # I use pwgen for the admin PIN.
       gpg2 --card-edit
       gpg/card> admin
       gpg/card> generate # No off-card key backup. 
                          # Use a key size of 3072 for everything on YubiKey 4. Default is fine for NEO.
                          # No expiration.
                          # Back up the .rev file.
       gpg/card> quit  # GPG will then print out data, including the key fingerprint
                       # as a long, alphanumeric string.
       gpg2 --keyserver hkps://keys.gnupg.net --send-keys $FINGERPRINT
       gpg2 --keyserver hkps://hkps.pool.sks-keyservers.net --send-keys $FINGERPRINT
       gpg2 --keyserver hkp://pgp.mit.edu --send-keys $FINGERPRINT

1. Display the public key in OpenSSH format:

       ssh-add -L

1. Optionally, export the "secret key," which will only be a stub (not the actual key, which is not obtainable):

       gpg2 --export-secret-key --armor $FINGERPRINT > $FINGERPRINT.asc  # Back this up, too.

1. After this is finished, the card should work. You should also have `$FINGERPRINT.asc` and `$FINGERPRINT.rev` backed up. Google Drive and Dropbox are fine for this backup; these files cannot be used to impersonate you.

### One-Time or Test Usage of the Agent

1. Open a terminal.
1. If you're restarted your computer since using the agent, start it:

       gpg-agent --daemon

1. In any shell where you want to use it, point OpenSSH to the GPG agent:

       export SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/run/user/$UID/gnupg/S.gpg-agent.ssh  # Or use the line shown in the output of starting the GPG agent

### Revoking a Key

1. If the key isn't imported locally, follow the "Using an Existing Smart Card" steps first (but skipping the "trust" step).
1. If you don't have the revocation certificate (`.rev`) backed up but have the private key:

       gpg2 --gen-revoke --output=$FINGERPRINT.rev $FINGERPRINT

1. Import the revocation:

       gpg2 --import $FINGERPRINT.rev  # May need to remove colon before the five dashes from file.
       
1. Publish the revocation:

       gpg2 --keyserver hkps://keys.gnupg.net --send-keys $FINGERPRINT
       gpg2 --keyserver hkps://hkps.pool.sks-keyservers.net --send-keys $FINGERPRINT
       gpg2 --keyserver hkp://pgp.mit.edu --send-keys $FINGERPRINT

## Go Development

1. Install packages:

       sudo dnf install golang

1. Add Go to the path:

       cat <<EOT >> ~/.bashrc
       export GOPATH=$HOME/go
       export PATH=$PATH:$GOROOT/bin:$GOPATH/bin
       EOT

## PHP Development

1. Install packages:

       sudo dnf install -y nginx mariadb mariadb-server php php-fpm php-mysqlnd php-dbg php-cli php-bcmath php-phpass php-mbstring php-opcache php-gd php-pecl-apcu php-pecl-xdebug

1. Install, start, and configure the database:

       sudo systemctl start mariadb
       mysql_secure_installation

1. Create a directory for web projects (and enable web server access to directories of that type):

       chmod 711 ~
       mkdir ~/public_html
       sudo setsebool -P httpd_enable_homedirs 1    # Enables use of ~/public_html by nginx and PHP-FPM.
       sudo setsebool -P httpd_execmem 1            # Enables PHP's regex compilation.
       sudo setsebool -P httpd_builtin_scripting 1  # Hope to fix: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1510717
       sudo setsebool -P httpd_unified 1            # Same here.
       sudo setsebool -P httpd_enable_cgi 1         # Same here.

1. Add support for "userdir" to nginx:

       cat <<EOT | sudo tee /etc/nginx/default.d/userdir.conf
       location @drupal {
           error_log /var/log/nginx/userdir.log notice;
           #rewrite_log on;
           rewrite ^/~([^/]+)/([^/]+)(.*)\?(.*)$ /~$1/$2/index.php?q=$3&$4;
           rewrite ^/~([^/]+)/([^/]+)(/.*?)$ /~$1/$2/index.php?q=$3;
       }
       
       location ^~ /~ {
           error_log /var/log/nginx/userdir.log notice;
       
           location ~ ^/~(?<username>[^/]+)(?<path>/.+\.php)$ {
               root /home/$username/public_html;
               try_files $path =404;
               fastcgi_index  index.php;
               include        fastcgi_params;
               fastcgi_param  SCRIPT_FILENAME  $document_root$path;
               fastcgi_param  SCRIPT_NAME      /~$username$path;
               fastcgi_pass   php-fpm;
           }
       
           location ~ ^/~(?<username>[^/]+)(?<path>/.+?)?$ {
               root /home/$username/public_html;
               try_files $path @drupal;
           }
       }
       EOT

1. Configure some PHP-related options:

       echo "apc.rfc1867=1" | sudo tee -a /etc/php.d/40-apcu.ini  # Upload progress tracking.
       
1. Start services for development (each time they're needed):

       sudo systemctl start mariadb php-fpm nginx

1. Use `~/public_html/$PROJECT/` as the web root, accessible via `http://localhost/~$USER/$PROJECT/`.

1. If new files with the wrong context get added, fix the selinux context:

       restorecon -R ~/public_html

## Dwarf Fortress
1. Download the latest archive.
1. Install necessary packages:

       sudo dnf install -y SDL.i686 SDL_image.i686 SDL_ttf.i686 mesa-libGLU.i686 gtk2.i686 zlib.i686 openal-soft.i686 xterm python qt qt-x11 bzip2 xorg-x11-fonts-Type1

1. Launch with `startlnp`
1. Use `xterm -e` as the custom terminal command configuration.

## OpenRA

1. Download [the binary package for the current release](https://software.opensuse.org/download.html?project=games:openra&package=openra).

1. Install the RPM using Software Center or DNF (in order to install dependencies).

## BIOS Updates

1. Install the conversion utility:

       sudo dnf install geteltorito

1. Download the "bootable CD" ISO. For ThinkPads, use [Lenovo's support site](http://pcsupport.lenovo.com/us/en/).
1. Write it to a USB drive:

       geteltorito -o update.img downloaded.iso

1. Open the `update.img` in the Disks utility and restore it to the USB drive.
1. Boot from that drive.

## Other Resources

* [U2F Local Login](http://blog.liw.fi/posts/u2f-pam/)
